INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
KHARAGPUR
The Great Step
Abstract Topic On
“Enviro Case Study’’
Venue : IIT Kharagpur
Participants :
Aditya Kumar Sahu
Branch : IT (1st year)
Domendra Sahu
Branch : IT (1st year)
Prachi Sahu
Branch: CSE (1st year)
Shristi Palanger
Branch : IT (1st year)
Government Engineering College Of Bilaspur,C.G.Abstract:
Water is used in mining for very few works. It includes mineral
processing, dust suppression, slurry transport, etc. In most of the
mining projects , water is sought from ground water , streams, rivers,
lakes, or through commercial water suppliers. In coal indstry , water
is used to extract ,was and sometimes transport the coal; to cool the
stream used to make the electricity in the power plant and to control
pollution. With the increased mining activity the demand of water is
in rise. Because ,mining industry is not only the one which uses water
as a resource,there are many industries which heavily depend on it.
Mining can have harmful effects on surrounding surface and ground
water. This is because the water left after the mining purpose is not
reusable. As mining produces copious amounts of waste water ,
disposal methods are limited do to contaminate within the waste
water .Runoff containing these chemicals can lead to the devastation
of surrounding vegetation.
What specific interventions,
framework that it should adopt to
ensure that the project starts the
way it is planned?Some of the ways are:
1. An outline of the proposed mining method, together with a
conceptual mine plan.
2.Quality restrictions, maximum and minimum levels for ash,
sulphur, volatile matter, etc. In the case of coals that have quality
problems and need to be beneficiated, the predicted yield needs to
be given.
3.Depth limits, imposed by either physical or economic constraints or
both.
What should be the required policies
and processes that the company
should adopt to ensure that
operations are conducted in a
manner conforming to the
requirements of the regulations ?
In general, the company's environmental policy dictates that its operation
go beyond simply meeting current regulatory standards.The operation
must exemplify best contemporary practice for the minimization and
where , feasible, elimination of adverse environmental effects. The
company so does by
1.incorporating environmental matters as a basic part of short and long
range planning for all projects and operations;2. Complying with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and
prescribed standards and criteria and ensuring that its contractors do like
wise;
3.participating in the development of environmental legislation;
4.promoting and , where feasible, implementing new and effective
practices for environmental protection, compliance and energy response;
How should the project
proponent address the
concerns of the external
stakeholders?
In many locations throughout the globe, conflicts between mining
companies and communities are common. In some cases,
stakeholder concerns have led to legal actions against mining
projectsThese conflicts are generally rooted in the competition
between the mining industry and the community over natural
resources, such as water or land, and in the adverse impacts
caused by the mining operations on the environment .The
concerns of external stakeholders can be addressed by :
1. Minimize adverse impact of mining activites on local community
and environment.
2. Facilitate open communication with the stakeholders.3. Citizen access to information regarding environmental compliance
and performance, including the right to inspect environmental
independent audit results and mine operations
4. Provide opportunities for community and external stakeholder
participation in decision making
5. By the satisfying the needs of external stakeholders.
What long term interventions
it can plan to mitigate the
concerns of water shortage of
the community?elaborate.
Among the challenges faced by the mining industry is the
need to minimize water losses during processing while
maximizing water recycling. Today, it is unusual for a mine
not to have the potential to recycle process water, which is
retained within the mine’s closed cycle and stored either
in a tailings facility or a dedicated water storage facility.
Concerted efforts to save water in this way can have major
benefits. For example, when BHP Billiton initiated a water
savings project at its Olympic Dam mine in Australia toreduce the volume of water used in its processes, it achieved
significant savings (see case study page 18).
Another effective way to save water is by reducing
evaporative losses in hot and dry areas. For example,
Xstrata’s Lomas Bayas mine in the water-scarce Atacama
Desert in Chile, which has annual rainfall of approximately
1 millimetre (mm), took steps to reduce evaporative losses
in the heap leaching process (see case study page 20).
In areas of water stress, a reduction in water usage across
a mining operation benefits the local community and the
site (through reducing costs and improving operational
efficiencies). A concerted effort in this regard can achieve
significant water use reductions. For example, at its Argyle
mine in Western Australia, Rio Tinto has achieved an
impressive 95% reduction in water use from the ecologically
significant Lake Argyle since 2005 .